YAML Conventions and Syntax
===========================

:link_to_translation:`zh_CN:[中文]`

This section covers the additional conventions BMGR defines on top of standard YAML: fill-in markers, enumeration syntax, the ``${BOARD_PATH}`` variable, and anchor/merge syntax. All three board-level YAML files follow these conventions.

The ``[IO]`` Marker
-------------------

When a field comment includes ``[IO]``, the field corresponds to a real hardware pin and must be filled in according to the actual schematic; do not copy example values or template defaults (typically ``-1``).

.. code-block:: yaml

   - name: i2c_main
     type: i2c
     config:
       sda_io_num: 10   # [IO]
       scl_io_num: 11   # [IO]

The ``[TO_BE_CONFIRMED]`` Marker
---------------------------------

When a field comment includes ``[TO_BE_CONFIRMED]``, the current value is a placeholder or generic default; each such field must be confirmed and replaced with the actual value when adapting for a specific board. Common examples include screen resolution, timing parameters, voltage levels, and I2C addresses—fields that require consulting the component datasheet.

Enumeration Values
------------------

Enumeration fields in YAML use the **exact enumeration name** from the ESP-IDF driver or related component header files; do not use custom strings or numeric substitutes. For example, the GPIO direction field should be ``GPIO_MODE_OUTPUT``, not ``1`` or ``"output"``; the MIPI DPI clock source should be ``MIPI_DSI_DPI_CLK_SRC_DEFAULT``, not a numeric value or abbreviation. The generator outputs the string as-is into C source code; a misspelled enumeration name will be caught at compile time.

The ``${BOARD_PATH}`` Variable
------------------------------

``${BOARD_PATH}`` in board YAML refers to the **root directory of the current board definition** (the directory containing ``board_devices.yaml``). When referencing local components under the board directory, use this variable instead of hardcoding a relative path. ``gen_bmgr_codes/idf_component.yml`` is generated by BMGR and expands relative paths relative to that directory, which is error-prone. ``${BOARD_PATH}`` is substituted uniformly by BMGR during generation, giving it stable semantics when written in board YAML:

.. code-block:: yaml

   dependencies:
     my_company/my_driver:
       version: "*"
       override_path: ${BOARD_PATH}/packages/my_driver

.. note::

   Only the ``${BOARD_PATH}`` form is recognized. Variants such as ``{{BOARD_PATH}}`` or ``$BOARD_PATH`` are not substituted.

YAML Anchors and Merge (Standard YAML)
---------------------------------------

BMGR does not restrict YAML parsing behavior, so standard syntax such as ``&`` anchors, ``*`` aliases, and ``<<:`` merge keys can be used directly; they are commonly used to eliminate duplicate configuration for peripherals of the same type:

.. code-block:: yaml

   peripherals:
     - name: spi_lcd
       type: spi
       version: "1.0.0"
       role: master
       config: &spi_master_default
         mosi_io_num: 11        # [IO]
         miso_io_num: -1        # Not needed for write-only devices
         sclk_io_num: 12        # [IO]
         max_transfer_sz: 32768

     - name: spi_touch
       type: spi
       version: "1.0.0"
       role: master
       config:
         <<: *spi_master_default
         mosi_io_num: 35        # [IO]
         sclk_io_num: 36        # [IO]
